Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Today, I’ll be taking you through Polaroid
by Lars Klevberg, a movie about a young girl
who gets an old polaroid camera with a dark
secret and darker past.
Now just so you know I’ll be first be going
through the movie’s plot before talking
about the movie’s monster, Harvey Weinstein,
the #MeToo movement, ghosts, and sort of how
you could beat the monster because
believe it or not all these things tie together.
Just so you know: Spoilers ahead, and without
Further ado: This is Polaroid (2019)
Now as I said before its all about this young
girl named Bird Fincher, who for whatever
reason has 2 bird names who one day gets
this inscribed old polaroid camera from her
friend, Tyler, along with a case and some film.
They work in this old antique shop in somewhere like
Nova Scotia or something, anyways
She tries it on Tyler who comes on to her
but she runs home to prepare for a costume
party because her friend, Kasey, that’s
her by the way, is all like “You know Connor?
Y'know, Connor's gonna be there, right?” and Bird’s all
like “....You know I’m usually awkward,
a loner, and not really social but I’ll
come just this once…” and so she does.
Going with her 2 other friends, Devin and
Mina, but as they get ready to leave, she
sees the photo of Tyler she took from earlier
suddenly gain this shadow in it.
So at this party, hosted by this nice...ish
girl named Avery, Bird runs into Connor, they
talk, particularly about a creeper shot Bird
took of Connor who shrugs it off as no big
deal. He's 'nice' like that
And then they get to talking about the camera
and Bird takes a photo of her friends and
Connor but as she takes it, she feels this
sense of foreboding, like something’s wrong
even though the photo is perfectly
fine and this feeling only gets worse after
Avery grabs the camera and takes
an unimpressed selfie with it.
And Avery's got this real attitude problem which only
gets exacerbated by the fact the police are here
and they want to talk to Bird
Because as Bird finds out, Tyler has died
in the shop, all alone and there
are no suspects that the police can finger.
Which I think brings me to a good place to
talk about the actual beginning of the film.
Y’see the first characters we see and actually meet
are these two teenagers whose only purpose
in the flim is to introduce the camera, the
weird shadow in the photos, and the fact that
after taking a photo, you can get killed by
a something.
This girl’s camera had been sold off at
a yard sale where Tyler bought it, and brought
it to the antique shop where he and Bird hang
out before ultimately giving her the camera.
we actually see how Tyler died as he was at the antique
shop testing out this projector only to get
killed by a bed sheet -- well a something under
the bed sheet, a something that was trying to
spook him in the photos that he was projecting
These details themselves are actually a big
hint towards what this movie’s monster is
and how it works though I’ll elaborate on
that later.
So back home, Bird looks at the photos she
took to find the dark shadow is in the background
of Avery’s selfie and she almost calls
Avery to tell her about it but doesn’t.
And unfortunately for Avery, she’s next
and we see how this monster terrorizes her
in her own house before it gets to her.
The next day, Bird hears that Avery died falling
down some stairs, in a freak accident but
Bird knows better.
When she checks the photos again, she finds
the shadow has moved to the group photo taken
at the party and she throws the camera against
the wall which doesn’t break it and instead
unleashes this shockwave that knocks her to
the ground.
And she tells her friends and Connor who kinda
just shows up at their lunch room table, about
her idea: showing them the photos, pointing
out the shadow and theorizes that the shadow
moving from photo to photo means that everyone
here at this lunchroom table is in danger.
All because of this camera, which Bird believes
will kill whoever is in a photo taken with it
And of course they don’t believe her, because
1) That’s a crazy idea,
2) This is just how these kinds of movies go down,
and 3) Bird is a weirdo in general so whatever she
says just doesn’t vibe well with anyone
except for Connor whose just a sweetheart.
So Devin decides to burn the photos, thinking
that if they’re burnt then the shadow will
be gone, they won’t die, and everyone lives
happily ever after.
Which honestly is a great idea but as the
flames reach deeper into the photo, Mina’s
arm catches on fire as if by magic along with
Kasey who begins to smoke up like a bonfire and
to make matters worse: not even
a fire extinguisher can put out the flames.
But with some quick thinking, Bird slaps the
fire on the photo away which causes the magical
fire to stop and the photo heals itself.
After dropping off Mina at the hospital to
get her burns checked up and leaving behind
Devin and Kasey.
Bird and Connor head to the antique shop where
the camera’s film and case were left with Bird
sneaking inside as Connor waits in the car
with the camera which begins to emit this
loud ringing noise and after shutting the
camera, he looks at the group photo and realizes
somethings wrong just in time as Bird manages
to get the case and the film from the shop
but runs into the shadow from the photo.
Who for some reason is attacking her and once
she and Connor get away, she freaks out trying
to understand why she’s being attacked if
she’s not in the photo.
She wasn't in the photo, right?
Well actually, she was!
Y'see her reflection was reflected
in a window in the group photo.
So now much like highschool
musical they are now all in this together
and, when Bird and Connor come back to the hospital
they find out that Mina was killed and
her death is supposedly a suicide
But the group knows better and don’t take
the news well, especially Devin who lashes
out against Bird who is
already blaming herself for everything.
And like in a way, yeah everything is her
fault but she didn’t know something like
this would happen so she’s sort of innocent
which is basically what Connor tells her.
It’s not your fault,
you didn’t mean to do this.
Which gets Bird opening up about her dad who
was a reporter before he died in a car accident
that she had survived. So she
has survivor's guilt which sucks!
but thankfully they have their next clue:
An evidence locker tag dated back
to October 1974.
So the duo head to a library and
bring back some boxes from that date
where they find old newspaper articles dated back then
about 3 teens who were abducted and murdered by Roland Joseph Sable, a local photography
teacher and who has the initials
RJS just like the camera.
The same camera they now have which
Roland used to take photos of his victims
before he killed them in a
local school’s darkroom.
What a guy.
So the kids meet up and talk about the Thing
that attacked Bird who proposes that since
it was blurry and only encountered in the
darkness, it may be linked to the camera and
the photos in a more literal sense: that is
to say it might be weak to light and fire
much like polaroid photographs are.
This would explain why it hasn’t shown up
yet to kill them in this well lit restaurant
and Kasey proposes that ghosts showing up
in photos has been a thing for a long time
and that things become cursed after being
near bad things like murderers for example.
So maybe this Thing is the ghost of Roland
which actually has some historical or at least
alleged basis.
Now to go on a tangent, what I mean by that there are allegedly things that are haunted or cursed in reality
One that might come to your mind is the infamous Annabelle doll that you might know of from the movie
series which is based off an actual doll that’s
kept in a display case at the Occult Museum
Another cursed item that’s actually associated
with a murderer, is the Busby Stoop Chair.
It traces its history back to father-killer named
Thomas Busby who supposedly cursed the chair
to kill whomever would sit in it.
Since then, it’s had a history of killing
those who had sat in there as it was kept
in a pub though its since been hung at the
Thirsk museum since 1978.
As for why, well
Mostly to stop people from sitting on it although
supposedly it was inspected by a furniture
historian who said that the chair was made
138 years after Busby was hung.
So the story is pretty full of it, but its
fun to think about.
Though one final thing I want to talk about
is ghost photography.
Historically, this has been a thing for a
while now wherein people spot wisps of an
outline or a shadowy spectre in the background
of a photo and the one defining image of a
ghost being captured on film that comes to
my mind is that of the Brown Lady of of Raynham
Hall that haunts the eponymous building in
Norfolk, England who is said to be the ghost
of Lady Dorothy Wadpole, the Sister of Robert
Wadpole, who died in the house due to smallpox.
Though usually in older photos they look a
bit different, looking more wispy than shadowy.
But if Roland is haunting the camera, the
question is why?
Devin throws a hissy fit and gets photographed
which causes him to be the next victim
and later he does get killed, and shortly after gets arrested by the local sheriff, who Connor and Bird
try to tell him about the whole Sable thing but the Sheriff
tells them to drop the case which doesn’t work
and the duo head to the house of Roland’s
widow, Leena Sable who tells them that the
camera belonged to their daughter: Rebekah
Jane Sable, who was a victim of bullying and
was traumatized and humiliated by 4 teenagers
at school who took photos of the deed which
led to her taking her own life.
So Roland went on a killing spree and killed
3 out of 4 teens who tortured Rebekah but
he was discovered by the police and killed
in the dark room of the local school, with
the camera in hand.
So it’s all coming together: Roland is haunting
the camera and trying to find the last surviving
teenager who tortured his child.
So, Bird and Connor go to school
to find a match for the face in the photo that was given to them by Leena Sable and discover
that Sheriff Pembroke was the teenager who
got away.
But they’re discovered by Sheriff Pembroke
with Kasey in cuffs.
So to finally put Roland to rest and avenge
Rebekeh they take a photo of the last survivor
who plot twist reveals that he and the teens
didn’t take those photos of Rebekah.
Roland did, he had been abusing her for years,
and the 4 teens were trying to get her away
from him but Roland snapped and came after
them which lead to Rebekah taking her life
as she couldn’t’ deal with the guilt of
what happened to her friends.
So Leena was lying which isn’t surprising
since she let Rebekah get abused but this means
they got the wrong guy.
And that’s when the Thing arrives looking
more like a human skeleton who brutally rips
Sheriff Pembroke in half before chasing the
teens though Bird manages to come up with
a solution to deal with the Thing.
She runs downstairs into the school’s dark
room where she manages to get a photo of the
thing and burns the photo, exorcising the
ghost at the cost of the two fingers that
were in the photo and the film ends with Kasey,
Connor, and Bird surviving with our heroine
tossing the camera into the drink.
So before I begin to delve into explaining
what just happened and bouncing around some
ideas I want to talk about the movie from
a more meta perspective very briefly. So hang on
You see this movie was supposed to be released
in 2017 by Lars Klevberg, who based the movie
off the short film of the same name
that was also directed by himself
As for why it didn’t come, well it involves
the New York Times running their expose on
Harvey Weinstein which made things difficult
for The Weinstein Company or TWC.
You see, the Weinstein Company was releasing
the movie under their production company,
Dimension Films, but they had to deal with
the whole MeToo movement which led to the
film being removed from release schedules
and ending up in limbo as Weinstein’s company
went bankrupt in 2018.
So now, the film’s rights have been acquired
by Lantern Capital who entered an all-rights
acquisition deal with Netflix which has finally
led to Polaroid seeing the light of day.
With Polaroid theatrically releasing in Germany,
the UK, and the US in 2019.
Now moving on to your more regular explained section:
The Thing in the Photographs or the Specter
Or the ghost as you’ve probably figured out
is heavily implied to be the ghost of Roland Sable.
The murderous, psychotic, abusive, manipulative,
and all-around bad dad of the story.
Who was haunting the polaroid camera due to
his spirit being linked to the gizmo as at
the time of his death,
Thereby cursing it with his evil spirit which
we think is out of a desire for vengeance
but by the end its confirmed that he’s just
a murderous jerk who much like Krombopulous
Michael from Rick and Morty:
Just love killing, and photography.
Unfortunately, he gets killed before finishing
his business so he sticks around to get that
one last kid who got away and, y'know later,
just killing people in general.
As for why he takes on that form, it’s
linked to the way he died: in the darkroom
chemical tub which affected his spirit as
we see: he develops much like a polaroid photo
and he is weak to the same things that polaroid
photos are weak to: fire and light.
And of course, we learn that there’s this
sympathetic bond, this physical connection
with the subjects of a photograph and the
photograph itself kinda like how voodoo dolls
can be used to hurt people as we see in the
lunchroom or the end.
Now one last thing, I had some ideas someone
could use to try and deal with the monster.
Not beat per say but use as a stop gap measure
from dying or just protecting yourself long
enough for a permanent solution
So the first idea goes like and it's really simple:
it's just to go one of those places where the sun never sets
such as Norway, Canada, Sweden, or Alaska.
The logic being that if the monster can’t show
itself in the light, then during those times
of the year when the sun doesn’t set, you
effectively have a way to protect yourself
for 70 days give or take.
Though it might not be financially possible
for Bird’s family as they are noted as being
financially unstable.
Another idea that's kinda silly
but could work is to set up a bunch of night
lights that all run on their own batteries
so that if the monster tries to knock out
the power in the house, you still have those
other lights on, which should keep you guarded
for a little while longer.
This is especially true if you had a backup
generator of some sort or lit a bunch of candles.
But that might, again, be a bit pricey to
employ or might not even work at all since
Roland might be able to knock out power in
even a flashlight.
I mean, if could knock out power in a
house, surely he could do it to a flashlight
Then there’s this final idea that is completely
completely unethical but a bit more practical
for BIrd and that is to take photos
of just people. Anyone.
We saw that the ghost would attack people
in a group photo but would single out a target
in a more recent photo so you could theoretically
take a group photo and just keep on doing
that as the monster hunts everyone down one
by one until you can make it to Norway or
Alaska.
Though the obvious problem would be that sooner
or later you would run of film which could
easily be solved by having new film delivered
to your house, though in Bird’s case the
only thing stopping her there would probably be money
although there are also other problems that
do make this rather impractical.
But what do you guys think?
Got any ideas for beating the monster?
Think my ideas are stupid?
What did you think of the movie?
Let me know with a comment down below, and
with that said thank you so much for watching
ladies and gentlemen.
If you enjoyed the video leave a like down
below, and subscribe to get updated on my
latest uploads.
Until next time, may no ghosts try to kill
you when you’re doing it for the gram.